So time to go back to the server and implement that file upload functionality.
Now what does uploading a file actually mean?
It means that on the server, we kind of need to extract such a file byte body from our incoming requests
and we can't do that with body parser,
this only works for JSON or URL encoded data but not for files. To extract files too, we need
to install a different package, so I'll quit one of the processes here and install that package with npm
install --save, the name is multer.
This is a package for NodeJS
and for Express to be precise, which allows us to extract incoming files. So after this is stored,
downloaded and saved, I'll restart
ngServe
and now we can use it.
Now how do we use it?
Well we can use multer by simply attaching it to certain routes that should be able to accept files.
So in our posts.js file in the routes file, that would be our posts route here.
There we create a new post and that post would include a file,
it would also include other data but also the file.
Now to use multer on this route, we first of all need to import it in the posts.js file. So I'll name a
constant multer and then I will simply require multer here.
Now multer needs some configuration, so let's create a new constant, maybe here and I'll name it storage,
the name is up to you,
I'll name it storage because it's related to a file storage
and there we need to define where multer should put files which it detects in the incoming request.
We do this with call by calling multer disk storage
and by the way if you want to learn more about multer, definitely check out their github repository
where you find a detailed documentation of how it works and the different features of it you can use.
But back to our code, I said we can call disk storage here to configure how multer does store things.
You pass a Javascript object to disk storage and there, you can set two keys, one is destination. Destination
is a function which will be executed whenever multer tries to save a file
it detected.
This function will get the request object,
the file which it extracted and a callback. You need to call that callback to basically, well pass
back that
where should you store it information to multer. So you could run a complex logic here
but I will simply call that callback and to that callback,
you need to pass two things.
The first argument is whether you detected some error, I'll set null here.
The second argument simply is a string with a path to the folder where this should be stored
and now I want to store it in the back-end folder and there, images. Now important,
this path is seen relative of your server.js file,
so this is relative to the path where your server.js file is stored.
That is why I have to add back-end here, even though we are in the routes folder in the back-end folder.
Now I'm targeting an image folder here and this doesn't exist yet, so let's add it,
images, you can of course name this however you want,
just make sure to update it here too and now multer would be able to write there.
We're not done though,
this is the destination. We also can and here want to tell multer what the filename should be.
So this is another function where
we get the request, the file and a callback and here, I'll
first of all extract the name.
You can get that from the file,
there is an original name property.
Now I also want to normalize this a bit.
SoI'll first of all convert it to all lowercase, then I'll split it by whitespace as I might have
and then join it again with a dash, so that any whitespace in the filename will be replaced with a
dash.
The problem is, this will miss the file extension,
we can extract that too though, we can get the file mime-type to be precise.
That's cool,
multer automatically gives us the mime-type, something we had to do with hard work on the front-end.
Now I will create a little helper constant here, MIME_TYPE_MAP to have a map of mime types and which
extension that would be.
I want to support three types of files and for image.png,
that would be the mime type,
I will use png as an extension. For image/jpeg as a mime type,
I would use jpg and for image/jpg, written like this, I will also use jpg. So these will be my
mime types.
Now I want to get the extension and I can do this by creating a new constant here in the file
named function extension and there, I'll use my MIME_TYPE_MAP and pass in the file mime-type property.
That will be in this format
and now we will simply select a mime type from this map and we should only get such a mime type since
we filter on the front-end. I can then call a callback here too to pass that information to multer,
we don't have an error
and now I can construct my name here by using the name plus let's say a dash plus let's say a timestamp
with date
now, I can get the current timestamp plus a dot and then the extension.
This should construct a unique filename based on the input file name, the current date and the correct
extension.
Now of course, we're validating the incoming files on the front-end, still as an extra security layer,
in destination,
I want to throw and return an error if we detect that we don't have one of these mime types. And I
should be able to do this by creating a new constant, isValid
and here I will use my MIME_TYPE_MAP and pass in the file mime-type and this should actually return
nothing, undefined, null
if we get a mime type that's not part of this map. So I'll then create a new error here, the new keyword,
new error, pass a message here, invalid mime type and I will then check if isValid,
if that is true so if it's not null or undefined, if we did find something, then I'll set error equal
to null, otherwise I'll leave the error message here and I will now pass
error here.
So with that, we configured multer, it now knows where to store things and how to store them.
Of course we're not using it though and we do use it, for example on this post route
by passing it as an extra middleware
and that's the cool thing about Express.
Thus far we have one filter, the path and then the function we want to execute. Now we can pass as many
arguments as we want here and they will execute from left to right.
So first, we parse this path here and now I will pass in another function and that will do something
to the request before our function runs and the function I want to use here is multer,
then I'll pass in my configuration,
so storage here and then I will call single here.
This means I'm expecting a single file and I'll pass image as an argument, as a string,
this simply means multer will now try to extract a single file from the incoming request and it
will try to find it on an image property in the request body and it will be our job to provide
this of course. That's the back-end set up,
now in order to be able to test it, we need to add the upload functionality in the Angular code then.